README.md, before:

# Open Bible Stories (OBS) Mobile App

<div align="center">
  <img src="./assets/splash-icon.png" alt="OBS App Icon" width="120" height="120">

  **A free and open-source Bible app for reading illustrated Bible stories**

  [![React Native](https://img.shields.io/badge/React%20Native-0.76.9-blue.svg)](https://reactnative.dev/)
  [![Expo](https://img.shields.io/badge/Expo-~52.0.46-black.svg)](https://expo.dev/)
  [![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-~5.3.3-blue.svg)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
  [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)
</div>

## 📖 About

Open Bible Stories is a free and open-source Bible app that allows you to read illustrated Bible stories in a variety of languages. It is a project of [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/) in collaboration with organizations from around the world.

### ✨ Features

- **📚 50 Bible Stories**: Complete collection of illustrated Open Bible Stories
- **🌍 Multiple Languages**: Support for dozens of languages worldwide
- **🎨 Beautiful Illustrations**: High-quality artwork for each story frame
- **📱 Offline Reading**: Download stories for offline access
- **🔍 Search & Discovery**: Find stories and browse by language/owner
- **❤️ Favorites**: Save your favorite stories for quick access
- **🌙 Dark Mode**: Comfortable reading in any lighting condition
- **📊 Progress Tracking**: Keep track of your reading progress


## 📱 For Users

### 🤖 Android Installation

#### Option 1: Download from GitHub Releases (Recommended)
1. Go to the [Releases](https://github.com/abelpz/my-expo-app/releases) page
2. Download the latest `obs-app-release.apk` file
3. Enable "Install from unknown sources" in your Android settings
4. Install the APK on your device

#### Option 2: GitHub Actions Builds
1. Go to the [Actions](https://github.com/abelpz/my-expo-app/actions) tab
2. Click on a completed "Build Android Release" workflow
3. Download the build artifacts
4. Extract and install the APK

### Getting Started

1. **Launch the app** and complete the onboarding process
2. **Select a language** from the available options
3. **Download stories** for offline reading
4. **Start reading** by selecting any of the 50 stories
5. **Navigate** through story frames by swiping or using navigation buttons

### App Structure

- **📖 Read Tab**: Browse and read downloaded stories
- **❤️ Favorites Tab**: Access your saved favorite stories
- **🔍 Search Tab**: Discover new content and manage downloads

### Perfect For Ministry Use

- **🌏 Missionaries**: Offline access in remote areas
- **⛪ Churches**: Share with congregation members
- **📚 Translation Teams**: Test new language versions
- **👨‍👩‍👧‍👦 Family Devotions**: Engaging stories for children
- **📖 Bible Study Groups**: Illustrated Bible stories

### 📋 Collection Compatibility

The app supports **Open Bible Stories** collections with the following structure:

**✅ Supported Collections:**
- 🔵 Collections with proper `content/` directory structure
- 🔵 Markdown files numbered sequentially (01.md, 02.md, etc.)
- 🔵 Collections following Door43 OBS format standards

**🟡 Unsupported Collections:**
- 🟡 Collections missing the required `content/` directory
- 🟡 Collections with non-standard file structures
- 🟡 Legacy format collections that haven't been updated

**How to Identify:** Collections marked with 🔧 (construction) and ⏱️ (schedule) icons are not currently supported but may become available in future updates.

**Need Help?** If you encounter collections that should be supported but show as unavailable, or if you can't find expected collections for your language, please [contact the developers](https://github.com/unfoldingword/obs-app/issues) with:
- 📝 Language name and code
- 🔗 Collection repository URL (if known)
- 📖 Expected story titles or collection details

## 🛠️ For Developers

### Tech Stack

- **Framework**: React Native 0.76.9 with Expo 52
- **Navigation**: Expo Router (file-based routing)
- **Styling**: NativeWind (Tailwind CSS for React Native)
- **Database**: Expo SQLite with Drizzle ORM
- **State Management**: React hooks and context
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Build System**: GitHub Actions with native Android builds

### Architecture

```
app/
├── (tabs)/                 # Tab-based navigation
│   ├── (read)/            # Reading interface
│   ├── favorites.tsx      # Favorites management
│   └── search.tsx         # Content discovery
├── components/            # Reusable UI components
├── _layout.tsx           # Root layout with navigation
├── languages.tsx         # Language selection
├── stories.tsx          # Story listing
├── about.tsx           # App information
└── settings.tsx        # App settings

src/                      # Business logic
├── managers/            # Data management classes
├── models/             # Data models and types
└── utils/              # Utility functions

android/                 # Native Android project
```

### Development Setup

#### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 18+ and npm
- **Android Studio** with Android SDK
- **Java Development Kit (JDK)** 17+
- **Git**

#### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/abelpz/my-expo-app.git
   cd my-expo-app
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up Android development environment**
   - Install Android Studio
   - Set up Android SDK (API level 34+)
   - Create an Android Virtual Device (AVD) or connect a physical device

4. **Generate native projects** (if needed)
   ```bash
   npm run prebuild
   ```

#### Development Commands

```bash
# Start development server
npm start

# Run on Android device/emulator
npm run android

# Run in web browser (for testing)
npm run web

# Lint and format code
npm run lint
npm run format
```

### 🚀 Automated Builds with GitHub Actions

This project uses GitHub Actions for automated Android builds. See [`.github/README.md`](.github/README.md) for complete workflow documentation.

#### Quick Build Guide

**Manual Build:**
1. Go to **Actions** → **"Build Android Release"**
2. Click **"Run workflow"**
3. Download APK from artifacts

**Automatic Build:**
1. Create a new GitHub release
2. APK is automatically built and attached

#### Build Features
- ✅ **No complex setup** - Uses your existing build scripts
- ✅ **Manual or automatic** triggers
- ✅ **Professional APKs** ready for distribution
- ✅ **Ministry-focused** - Perfect for Open Bible Stories

### Building APKs Locally

#### Cross-Platform Compatibility ✨
All build scripts work seamlessly across **Windows**, **macOS**, and **Linux**.

#### Debug Build (Development)
```bash
# Build debug APK
npm run build:android:debug

# Install debug APK on connected device
npm run install:android:debug
```

#### Release Build (Production)
```bash
# Clean previous builds
npm run build:android:clean

# Build release APK
npm run build:android:release

# Install release APK on connected device
npm run install:android:release
```

The release APK will be located at:
`android/app/build/outputs/apk/release/app-release.apk`

### Project Structure Details

#### Data Flow
1. **Content Discovery**: App discovers available collections via DCS API
2. **Download Management**: Collections are downloaded as ZIP files
3. **Local Storage**: Content is extracted and stored in SQLite database
4. **Offline Access**: Stories are read from local storage

#### Collection Format Validation

The app automatically validates collection structures before allowing downloads:

**Required Structure:**
```
repository-root/
└── content/
    ├── 01.md    # Story 1
    ├── 02.md    # Story 2
    ├── ...
    └── 50.md    # Story 50
```

**Validation Process:**
- Collections are validated via `CollectionsManager.validateCollectionStructure()`
- The `getRemoteCollectionsByLanguage()` method returns validation status for each collection
- Invalid collections are marked with `isValid: false` and displayed with 🔧⏱️ icons

**Supported Content Format:**
```markdown
# Story Title

![Image Description](image-url) Text content for frame 1.

![Image Description](image-url) Text content for frame 2.
```

**Unsupported Scenarios:**
- Missing `content/` directory
- Non-sequential file numbering
- Non-markdown content files
- Empty or malformed markdown files

#### Key Components

- **CollectionsManager**: Handles downloading and managing story collections
- **StoryManager**: Manages individual story data and reading progress
- **DatabaseManager**: SQLite operations and data persistence
- **Navigation**: File-based routing with Expo Router
- **UI Components**: Reusable components with NativeWind styling

#### Database Schema
- **Collections**: Metadata about downloaded story collections
- **Stories**: Individual story data and content
- **Progress**: Reading progress and bookmarks
- **Favorites**: User's favorite stories

### Contributing

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. **Make your changes** and ensure tests pass
4. **Commit your changes**: `git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`
5. **Push to the branch**: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
6. **Open a Pull Request**

#### Code Style

- Use TypeScript for all new code
- Follow the existing code style (ESLint + Prettier)
- Use meaningful component and variable names
- Add comments for complex logic
- Ensure responsive design works on various screen sizes

#### Testing

```bash
# Run linting
npm run lint

# Format code
npm run format

# Type checking
npx tsc --noEmit
```

### Troubleshooting

#### Common Issues

**Dependencies not found (expo-linear-gradient, expo-file-system)**
- ✅ **Fixed**: Both dependencies are now properly installed

**Build failures**
- Clean the build: `npm run build:android:clean`
- Ensure Android SDK is properly configured
- Check that all dependencies are installed

**Metro bundler issues**
- Clear Metro cache: `npx expo start --clear`
- Reset node modules: `rm -rf node_modules && npm install`

**Android emulator not detected**
- Ensure Android Studio is installed and AVD is running
- Check that `adb` is in your PATH
- Verify USB debugging is enabled on physical devices

### API Documentation

The app integrates with the Door43 Content Service (DCS) API:

- **Base URL**: `https://git.door43.org/api/v1/`
- **Catalog Endpoints**: For discovering available content
- **Repository Endpoints**: For downloading content packages

## 🚀 Distribution Strategy

### For Ministry Organizations

1. **Build APK** using GitHub Actions (manual or release)
2. **Test** with your ministry team
3. **Distribute** APK file to partners
4. **Support** with included installation guides

### Perfect Distribution Scenarios

- **Church Ministry**: Share APK with congregation
- **Mission Fields**: Offline Bible stories for remote areas
- **Translation Partners**: Beta test new language versions
- **Bible Study Groups**: Engaging illustrated stories
- **Family Ministry**: Children's Bible story time

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🤝 Acknowledgments

- [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/) for the Open Bible Stories content
- [Door43](https://door43.org/) for the content distribution platform
- All the translators and organizations contributing stories in various languages
- The React Native and Expo communities for excellent development tools

## 📞 Support

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/abelpz/my-expo-app/issues)
- **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/abelpz/my-expo-app/discussions)
- **Workflow Documentation**: [`.github/README.md`](.github/README.md)
- **Email**: support@unfoldingword.org

### 🔧 Collection Support Issues

**Missing or Unsupported Collections?**  
If you experience issues with collections not being available or showing as unsupported:

1. **📋 Create an Issue** on [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/abelpz/my-expo-app/issues)
2. **📝 Include Details**:
   - Language name and ISO code (e.g., "Spanish (es)")
   - Expected collection/repository name
   - URL of the collection repository (if known)
   - Screenshot of the issue (if applicable)

3. **⚡ Quick Response**: Our team will investigate and work to add support for valid OBS collections

**Why Some Collections Are Unsupported:**
- Repository structure doesn't match OBS standards
- Missing required `content/` directory with numbered markdown files
- Legacy formats that need updating by content creators

---

<div align="center">
  <strong>Ready to share God's Word worldwide! 📱📖✨</strong><br/>
  Made with ❤️ by the unfoldingWord community
</div>

Commit message:

Implement source reference extraction for stories, enhancing metadata management. Update FavoritesScreen and StoriesScreen to display source references on long press. Modify CollectionsManager to extract and manage source references from story content, ensuring improved context for each story. Update README.md to document new functionality.

README.md, after:

# Open Bible Stories (OBS) Mobile App

<div align="center">
  <img src="./assets/splash-icon.png" alt="OBS App Icon" width="120" height="120">

  **A free and open-source Bible app for reading illustrated Bible stories**

  [![React Native](https://img.shields.io/badge/React%20Native-0.76.9-blue.svg)](https://reactnative.dev/)
  [![Expo](https://img.shields.io/badge/Expo-~52.0.46-black.svg)](https://expo.dev/)
  [![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/TypeScript-~5.3.3-blue.svg)](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
  [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-green.svg)](LICENSE)
</div>

## 📖 About

Open Bible Stories is a free and open-source Bible app that allows you to read illustrated Bible stories in a variety of languages. It is a project of [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/) in collaboration with organizations from around the world.

### ✨ Features

- **📚 50 Bible Stories**: Complete collection of illustrated Open Bible Stories
- **🌍 Multiple Languages**: Support for dozens of languages worldwide
- **🎨 Beautiful Illustrations**: High-quality artwork for each story frame
- **📱 Offline Reading**: Download stories for offline access
- **🔍 Search & Discovery**: Find stories and browse by language/owner
- **❤️ Favorites**: Save your favorite stories for quick access
- **🌙 Dark Mode**: Comfortable reading in any lighting condition
- **📊 Progress Tracking**: Keep track of your reading progress


## 📱 For Users

### 🤖 Android Installation

#### Option 1: Download from GitHub Releases (Recommended)
1. Go to the [Releases](https://github.com/abelpz/my-expo-app/releases) page
2. Download the latest `obs-app-release.apk` file
3. Enable "Install from unknown sources" in your Android settings
4. Install the APK on your device

#### Option 2: GitHub Actions Builds
1. Go to the [Actions](https://github.com/abelpz/my-expo-app/actions) tab
2. Click on a completed "Build Android Release" workflow
3. Download the build artifacts
4. Extract and install the APK

### Getting Started

1. **Launch the app** and complete the onboarding process
2. **Select a language** from the available options
3. **Download stories** for offline reading
4. **Start reading** by selecting any of the 50 stories
5. **Navigate** through story frames by swiping or using navigation buttons

### App Structure

- **📖 Read Tab**: Browse and read downloaded stories
- **❤️ Favorites Tab**: Access your saved favorite stories
- **🔍 Search Tab**: Discover new content and manage downloads

### Perfect For Ministry Use

- **🌏 Missionaries**: Offline access in remote areas
- **⛪ Churches**: Share with congregation members
- **📚 Translation Teams**: Test new language versions
- **👨‍👩‍👧‍👦 Family Devotions**: Engaging stories for children
- **📖 Bible Study Groups**: Illustrated Bible stories

### 📋 Collection Compatibility

The app supports **Open Bible Stories** collections with the following structure:

**✅ Supported Collections:**
- 🔵 Collections with proper `content/` directory structure
- 🔵 Markdown files numbered sequentially (01.md, 02.md, etc.)
- 🔵 Collections following Door43 OBS format standards

**🟡 Unsupported Collections:**
- 🟡 Collections missing the required `content/` directory
- 🟡 Collections with non-standard file structures
- 🟡 Legacy format collections that haven't been updated

**How to Identify:** Collections marked with 🔧 (construction) and ⏱️ (schedule) icons are not currently supported but may become available in future updates.

**Need Help?** If you encounter collections that should be supported but show as unavailable, or if you can't find expected collections for your language, please [contact the developers](https://github.com/unfoldingword/obs-app/issues) with:
- 📝 Language name and code
- 🔗 Collection repository URL (if known)
- 📖 Expected story titles or collection details

## 🛠️ For Developers

### Tech Stack

- **Framework**: React Native 0.76.9 with Expo 52
- **Navigation**: Expo Router (file-based routing)
- **Styling**: NativeWind (Tailwind CSS for React Native)
- **Database**: Expo SQLite with Drizzle ORM
- **State Management**: React hooks and context
- **Language**: TypeScript
- **Build System**: GitHub Actions with native Android builds

### Architecture

```
app/
├── (tabs)/                 # Tab-based navigation
│   ├── (read)/            # Reading interface
│   ├── favorites.tsx      # Favorites management
│   └── search.tsx         # Content discovery
├── components/            # Reusable UI components
├── _layout.tsx           # Root layout with navigation
├── languages.tsx         # Language selection
├── stories.tsx          # Story listing
├── about.tsx           # App information
└── settings.tsx        # App settings

src/                      # Business logic
├── managers/            # Data management classes
├── models/             # Data models and types
└── utils/              # Utility functions

android/                 # Native Android project
```

### Development Setup

#### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 18+ and npm
- **Android Studio** with Android SDK
- **Java Development Kit (JDK)** 17+
- **Git**

#### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/abelpz/my-expo-app.git
   cd my-expo-app
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up Android development environment**
   - Install Android Studio
   - Set up Android SDK (API level 34+)
   - Create an Android Virtual Device (AVD) or connect a physical device

4. **Generate native projects** (if needed)
   ```bash
   npm run prebuild
   ```

#### Development Commands

```bash
# Start development server
npm start

# Run on Android device/emulator
npm run android

# Run in web browser (for testing)
npm run web

# Lint and format code
npm run lint
npm run format
```

### 🚀 Automated Builds with GitHub Actions

This project uses GitHub Actions for automated Android builds. See [`.github/README.md`](.github/README.md) for complete workflow documentation.

#### Quick Build Guide

**Manual Build:**
1. Go to **Actions** → **"Build Android Release"**
2. Click **"Run workflow"**
3. Download APK from artifacts

**Automatic Build:**
1. Create a new GitHub release
2. APK is automatically built and attached

#### Build Features
- ✅ **No complex setup** - Uses your existing build scripts
- ✅ **Manual or automatic** triggers
- ✅ **Professional APKs** ready for distribution
- ✅ **Ministry-focused** - Perfect for Open Bible Stories

### Building APKs Locally

#### Cross-Platform Compatibility ✨
All build scripts work seamlessly across **Windows**, **macOS**, and **Linux**.

#### Debug Build (Development)
```bash
# Build debug APK
npm run build:android:debug

# Install debug APK on connected device
npm run install:android:debug
```

#### Release Build (Production)
```bash
# Clean previous builds
npm run build:android:clean

# Build release APK
npm run build:android:release

# Install release APK on connected device
npm run install:android:release
```

The release APK will be located at:
`android/app/build/outputs/apk/release/app-release.apk`

### Project Structure Details

#### Data Flow
1. **Content Discovery**: App discovers available collections via DCS API
2. **Download Management**: Collections are downloaded as ZIP files
3. **Local Storage**: Content is extracted and stored in SQLite database
4. **Offline Access**: Stories are read from local storage

#### Collection Format Validation

The app automatically validates collection structures before allowing downloads:

**Required Structure:**
```
repository-root/
└── content/
    ├── 01.md    # Story 1
    ├── 02.md    # Story 2
    ├── ...
    └── 50.md    # Story 50
```

**Validation Process:**
- Collections are validated via `CollectionsManager.validateCollectionStructure()`
- The `getRemoteCollectionsByLanguage()` method returns validation status for each collection
- Invalid collections are marked with `isValid: false` and displayed with 🔧⏱️ icons

**Supported Content Format:**
```markdown
# Story Title

![Image Description](image-url) Text content for frame 1.

![Image Description](image-url) Text content for frame 2.

_A story from Genesis 1-5_
```

**Source Reference Extraction:**
- The app automatically extracts source references from the last non-blank line
- Text between underscores (e.g., `_A story from Genesis 1-5_`) is saved as `sourceReference` in story metadata
- This provides biblical context for each story

**Unsupported Scenarios:**
- Missing `content/` directory
- Non-sequential file numbering
- Non-markdown content files
- Empty or malformed markdown files

#### Key Components

- **CollectionsManager**: Handles downloading and managing story collections
- **StoryManager**: Manages individual story data and reading progress
- **DatabaseManager**: SQLite operations and data persistence
- **Navigation**: File-based routing with Expo Router
- **UI Components**: Reusable components with NativeWind styling

#### Database Schema
- **Collections**: Metadata about downloaded story collections
- **Stories**: Individual story data and content
- **Progress**: Reading progress and bookmarks
- **Favorites**: User's favorite stories

### Contributing

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. **Make your changes** and ensure tests pass
4. **Commit your changes**: `git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`
5. **Push to the branch**: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
6. **Open a Pull Request**

#### Code Style

- Use TypeScript for all new code
- Follow the existing code style (ESLint + Prettier)
- Use meaningful component and variable names
- Add comments for complex logic
- Ensure responsive design works on various screen sizes

#### Testing

```bash
# Run linting
npm run lint

# Format code
npm run format

# Type checking
npx tsc --noEmit
```

### Troubleshooting

#### Common Issues

**Dependencies not found (expo-linear-gradient, expo-file-system)**
- ✅ **Fixed**: Both dependencies are now properly installed

**Build failures**
- Clean the build: `npm run build:android:clean`
- Ensure Android SDK is properly configured
- Check that all dependencies are installed

**Metro bundler issues**
- Clear Metro cache: `npx expo start --clear`
- Reset node modules: `rm -rf node_modules && npm install`

**Android emulator not detected**
- Ensure Android Studio is installed and AVD is running
- Check that `adb` is in your PATH
- Verify USB debugging is enabled on physical devices

### API Documentation

The app integrates with the Door43 Content Service (DCS) API:

- **Base URL**: `https://git.door43.org/api/v1/`
- **Catalog Endpoints**: For discovering available content
- **Repository Endpoints**: For downloading content packages

## 🚀 Distribution Strategy

### For Ministry Organizations

1. **Build APK** using GitHub Actions (manual or release)
2. **Test** with your ministry team
3. **Distribute** APK file to partners
4. **Support** with included installation guides

### Perfect Distribution Scenarios

- **Church Ministry**: Share APK with congregation
- **Mission Fields**: Offline Bible stories for remote areas
- **Translation Partners**: Beta test new language versions
- **Bible Study Groups**: Engaging illustrated stories
- **Family Ministry**: Children's Bible story time

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🤝 Acknowledgments

- [unfoldingWord](https://unfoldingword.org/) for the Open Bible Stories content
- [Door43](https://door43.org/) for the content distribution platform
- All the translators and organizations contributing stories in various languages
- The React Native and Expo communities for excellent development tools

## 📞 Support

- **Issues**: [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/abelpz/my-expo-app/issues)
- **Discussions**: [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/abelpz/my-expo-app/discussions)
- **Workflow Documentation**: [`.github/README.md`](.github/README.md)
- **Email**: support@unfoldingword.org

### 🔧 Collection Support Issues

**Missing or Unsupported Collections?**  
If you experience issues with collections not being available or showing as unsupported:

1. **📋 Create an Issue** on [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/abelpz/my-expo-app/issues)
2. **📝 Include Details**:
   - Language name and ISO code (e.g., "Spanish (es)")
   - Expected collection/repository name
   - URL of the collection repository (if known)
   - Screenshot of the issue (if applicable)

3. **⚡ Quick Response**: Our team will investigate and work to add support for valid OBS collections

**Why Some Collections Are Unsupported:**
- Repository structure doesn't match OBS standards
- Missing required `content/` directory with numbered markdown files
- Legacy formats that need updating by content creators

---

<div align="center">
  <strong>Ready to share God's Word worldwide! 📱📖✨</strong><br/>
  Made with ❤️ by the unfoldingWord community
</div>
