docs/ARCHITECTURE.md, before:

# Architecture Guide

## Project Structure

```
app/
├── (tabs)/                    # Tab-based navigation
│   ├── (read)/               # Reading interface
│   │   ├── index.tsx         # Main read screen
│   │   ├── downloads/        # Download management
│   │   ├── stories/          # Story listing
│   │   └── story/            # Story reading interface
│   ├── favorites.tsx         # Favorites management
│   └── search.tsx            # Content discovery
├── story/                    # Deep link redirects
│   └── [storyNumber]/
│       └── [frameNumber].tsx # Simplified deep link handler
├── components/               # Reusable UI components
├── _layout.tsx              # Root layout with navigation
├── languages.tsx            # Language selection
├── about.tsx               # App information
└── settings.tsx            # App settings

src/                         # Business logic
├── core/                   # Core managers and services
│   ├── CollectionsManager.ts
│   ├── StoryManager.ts
│   ├── DatabaseManager.ts
│   ├── CommentsManager.ts
│   └── UnifiedLanguagesManager.ts
├── components/             # Reusable UI components
├── hooks/                  # Custom React hooks
│   ├── useStoryNavigation.ts
│   └── useReadingProgress.ts
├── db/                     # Database schema and migrations
└── utils/                  # Utility functions

android/                    # Native Android project
```

## Data Flow

### 1. Content Discovery
- App discovers available collections via Door43 Content Service (DCS) API
- Collections are validated for proper OBS format
- Invalid collections are marked and filtered out

### 2. Download Management
- Collections are downloaded as ZIP files from DCS repositories
- ZIP files are extracted and validated locally
- Content is parsed and stored in SQLite database

### 3. Local Storage
- Stories and frames are stored in SQLite with Drizzle ORM
- Reading progress and user preferences tracked locally
- Offline-first architecture ensures functionality without internet

### 4. Navigation
- File-based routing with Expo Router
- Deep linking support for sharing specific content
- User preference-aware navigation (reading modes)

## Key Components

### Core Managers

#### CollectionsManager
- **Purpose**: Handles downloading and managing story collections
- **Key Methods**:
  - `getRemoteCollectionsByLanguage()` - Discover available collections
  - `downloadCollection()` - Download and extract collection content
  - `validateCollectionStructure()` - Ensure proper OBS format
  - `getFavoriteStories()` / `getFavoriteFrames()` - Manage favorites

#### StoryManager
- **Purpose**: Manages individual story data and reading progress
- **Key Methods**:
  - `saveReadingProgress()` - Track user reading progress
  - `getAllReadingProgress()` - Get reading history
  - `addMarker()` / `getAllMarkers()` - User bookmarks
  - `getStoriesForCollection()` - Get stories in a collection

#### DatabaseManager
- **Purpose**: SQLite operations and data persistence
- **Features**:
  - Unified database with Drizzle ORM
  - Migration support from legacy databases
  - Transaction support for data integrity

#### UnifiedLanguagesManager
- **Purpose**: Language detection and RTL support
- **Features**:
  - Automatic language detection from collection metadata
  - RTL (Right-to-Left) text direction support
  - Language-specific UI adjustments

### UI Components

#### Navigation Components
- **useStoryNavigation**: Smart navigation hook with reading mode preferences
- **Deep Link Redirects**: Simplified URL routing (`obs-app://story/1/3`)
- **Tab Navigation**: Bottom tab navigation with reading/favorites/search

#### Reading Interface
- **Horizontal Reader**: Traditional frame-by-frame navigation
- **Vertical Reader**: Continuous scrolling interface
- **Reading Progress**: Automatic progress tracking and resume functionality

#### Content Management
- **Collection Browser**: Language and owner filtering
- **Download Manager**: Background downloading with progress indicators
- **Favorites System**: Story and frame-level favoriting

## Database Schema

### Collections Table
```sql
Collections {
  id: string (primary key)
  language: string
  owner: string
  displayName: string
  isDownloaded: boolean
  downloadedAt: timestamp
  metadata: json
}
```

### Stories Table
```sql
Stories {
  id: string (primary key)
  collectionId: string (foreign key)
  storyNumber: number
  title: string
  sourceReference: string
  frames: json
}
```

### Progress Table
```sql
ReadingProgress {
  id: string (primary key)
  collectionId: string
  storyNumber: number
  frameNumber: number
  timestamp: number
  totalFrames: number
}
```

### User Data Tables
```sql
UserMarkers {
  id: string (primary key)
  collectionId: string
  storyNumber: number
  frameNumber: number
  note: string
  color: string
  timestamp: number
}

FrameComments {
  id: string (primary key)
  collectionId: string
  storyNumber: number
  frameNumber: number
  comment: string
  createdAt: timestamp
  updatedAt: timestamp
}
```

## API Integration

### Door43 Content Service (DCS)
- **Base URL**: `https://git.door43.org/api/v1/`
- **Catalog Endpoints**: For discovering available content
- **Repository Endpoints**: For downloading content packages

### Content Validation

#### Required Collection Structure
```
repository-root/
└── content/
    ├── 01.md    # Story 1
    ├── 02.md    # Story 2
    ├── ...
    └── 50.md    # Story 50
```

#### Validation Process
1. Collections validated via `CollectionsManager.validateCollectionStructure()`
2. `getRemoteCollectionsByLanguage()` returns validation status
3. Invalid collections marked with `isValid: false`
4. UI displays validation status with icons (🔧⏱️ for invalid)

#### Supported Content Format
```markdown
# Story Title

![Image Description](image-url) Text content for frame 1.

![Image Description](image-url) Text content for frame 2.

_A story from Genesis 1-5_
```

#### Source Reference Extraction
- Automatically extracts source references from last non-blank line
- Text between underscores saved as `sourceReference` in story metadata
- Provides biblical context for each story

## Deep Linking Architecture

### URL Schemes
- **Production**: `obs-app://`
- **Development (Expo Go)**: `exp://localhost:8081/--/`

### Route Structure
```
obs-app://story/[collectionId]/[storyNumber]/[frameNumber]  # Full route
obs-app://story/[storyNumber]/[frameNumber]                # Simplified route
obs-app://favorites                                         # Tab navigation
obs-app://search                                           # Tab navigation
```

### Smart Redirect System
1. Simplified routes (`obs-app://story/1/3`) redirect to full routes
2. Uses most recent collection from reading progress
3. Respects user's reading mode preference (horizontal/vertical)
4. Fallback to main screen if no reading history exists

## Performance Considerations

### Offline-First Design
- All content stored locally after download
- Reading functionality works without internet connection
- Progressive download of collections as needed

### Memory Management
- Lazy loading of story content
- Image caching for illustrations
- Efficient SQLite queries with proper indexing

### Background Processing
- Collection downloads happen in background
- Reading progress saved asynchronously
- Non-blocking UI updates during data operations

Commit message:

Enhance documentation for collection structure by introducing support for both 'content/' and 'ingredients/' directory formats in ARCHITECTURE.md and COLLECTIONS.md. Update validation logic in CollectionsManager to accommodate the new structure, ensuring accurate collection validation and error handling. Improve regex patterns for file matching and refine error messages for clarity.

docs/ARCHITECTURE.md, after:

# Architecture Guide

## Project Structure

```
app/
├── (tabs)/                    # Tab-based navigation
│   ├── (read)/               # Reading interface
│   │   ├── index.tsx         # Main read screen
│   │   ├── downloads/        # Download management
│   │   ├── stories/          # Story listing
│   │   └── story/            # Story reading interface
│   ├── favorites.tsx         # Favorites management
│   └── search.tsx            # Content discovery
├── story/                    # Deep link redirects
│   └── [storyNumber]/
│       └── [frameNumber].tsx # Simplified deep link handler
├── components/               # Reusable UI components
├── _layout.tsx              # Root layout with navigation
├── languages.tsx            # Language selection
├── about.tsx               # App information
└── settings.tsx            # App settings

src/                         # Business logic
├── core/                   # Core managers and services
│   ├── CollectionsManager.ts
│   ├── StoryManager.ts
│   ├── DatabaseManager.ts
│   ├── CommentsManager.ts
│   └── UnifiedLanguagesManager.ts
├── components/             # Reusable UI components
├── hooks/                  # Custom React hooks
│   ├── useStoryNavigation.ts
│   └── useReadingProgress.ts
├── db/                     # Database schema and migrations
└── utils/                  # Utility functions

android/                    # Native Android project
```

## Data Flow

### 1. Content Discovery
- App discovers available collections via Door43 Content Service (DCS) API
- Collections are validated for proper OBS format
- Invalid collections are marked and filtered out

### 2. Download Management
- Collections are downloaded as ZIP files from DCS repositories
- ZIP files are extracted and validated locally
- Content is parsed and stored in SQLite database

### 3. Local Storage
- Stories and frames are stored in SQLite with Drizzle ORM
- Reading progress and user preferences tracked locally
- Offline-first architecture ensures functionality without internet

### 4. Navigation
- File-based routing with Expo Router
- Deep linking support for sharing specific content
- User preference-aware navigation (reading modes)

## Key Components

### Core Managers

#### CollectionsManager
- **Purpose**: Handles downloading and managing story collections
- **Key Methods**:
  - `getRemoteCollectionsByLanguage()` - Discover available collections
  - `downloadCollection()` - Download and extract collection content
  - `validateCollectionStructure()` - Ensure proper OBS format
  - `getFavoriteStories()` / `getFavoriteFrames()` - Manage favorites

#### StoryManager
- **Purpose**: Manages individual story data and reading progress
- **Key Methods**:
  - `saveReadingProgress()` - Track user reading progress
  - `getAllReadingProgress()` - Get reading history
  - `addMarker()` / `getAllMarkers()` - User bookmarks
  - `getStoriesForCollection()` - Get stories in a collection

#### DatabaseManager
- **Purpose**: SQLite operations and data persistence
- **Features**:
  - Unified database with Drizzle ORM
  - Migration support from legacy databases
  - Transaction support for data integrity

#### UnifiedLanguagesManager
- **Purpose**: Language detection and RTL support
- **Features**:
  - Automatic language detection from collection metadata
  - RTL (Right-to-Left) text direction support
  - Language-specific UI adjustments

### UI Components

#### Navigation Components
- **useStoryNavigation**: Smart navigation hook with reading mode preferences
- **Deep Link Redirects**: Simplified URL routing (`obs-app://story/1/3`)
- **Tab Navigation**: Bottom tab navigation with reading/favorites/search

#### Reading Interface
- **Horizontal Reader**: Traditional frame-by-frame navigation
- **Vertical Reader**: Continuous scrolling interface
- **Reading Progress**: Automatic progress tracking and resume functionality

#### Content Management
- **Collection Browser**: Language and owner filtering
- **Download Manager**: Background downloading with progress indicators
- **Favorites System**: Story and frame-level favoriting

## Database Schema

### Collections Table
```sql
Collections {
  id: string (primary key)
  language: string
  owner: string
  displayName: string
  isDownloaded: boolean
  downloadedAt: timestamp
  metadata: json
}
```

### Stories Table
```sql
Stories {
  id: string (primary key)
  collectionId: string (foreign key)
  storyNumber: number
  title: string
  sourceReference: string
  frames: json
}
```

### Progress Table
```sql
ReadingProgress {
  id: string (primary key)
  collectionId: string
  storyNumber: number
  frameNumber: number
  timestamp: number
  totalFrames: number
}
```

### User Data Tables
```sql
UserMarkers {
  id: string (primary key)
  collectionId: string
  storyNumber: number
  frameNumber: number
  note: string
  color: string
  timestamp: number
}

FrameComments {
  id: string (primary key)
  collectionId: string
  storyNumber: number
  frameNumber: number
  comment: string
  createdAt: timestamp
  updatedAt: timestamp
}
```

## API Integration

### Door43 Content Service (DCS)
- **Base URL**: `https://git.door43.org/api/v1/`
- **Catalog Endpoints**: For discovering available content
- **Repository Endpoints**: For downloading content packages

### Content Validation

#### Required Collection Structure
Collections can follow either of these directory structures:

**Standard Format:**
```
repository-root/
└── content/
    ├── 01.md    # Story 1
    ├── 02.md    # Story 2
    ├── ...
    └── 50.md    # Story 50
```

**Burrito Format (ingredients directory):**
```
repository-root/
└── ingredients/
    ├── 01.md    # Story 1
    ├── 02.md    # Story 2
    ├── ...
    └── 50.md    # Story 50
```

#### Validation Process
1. Collections validated via `CollectionsManager.validateCollectionStructure()`
2. Checks for either `content/` or `ingredients/` directory
3. `getRemoteCollectionsByLanguage()` returns validation status
4. Invalid collections marked with `isValid: false`
5. UI displays validation status with icons (🔧⏱️ for invalid)

#### Supported Content Format
```markdown
# Story Title

![Image Description](image-url) Text content for frame 1.

![Image Description](image-url) Text content for frame 2.

_A story from Genesis 1-5_
```

#### Source Reference Extraction
- Automatically extracts source references from last non-blank line
- Text between underscores saved as `sourceReference` in story metadata
- Provides biblical context for each story

## Deep Linking Architecture

### URL Schemes
- **Production**: `obs-app://`
- **Development (Expo Go)**: `exp://localhost:8081/--/`

### Route Structure
```
obs-app://story/[collectionId]/[storyNumber]/[frameNumber]  # Full route
obs-app://story/[storyNumber]/[frameNumber]                # Simplified route
obs-app://favorites                                         # Tab navigation
obs-app://search                                           # Tab navigation
```

### Smart Redirect System
1. Simplified routes (`obs-app://story/1/3`) redirect to full routes
2. Uses most recent collection from reading progress
3. Respects user's reading mode preference (horizontal/vertical)
4. Fallback to main screen if no reading history exists

## Performance Considerations

### Offline-First Design
- All content stored locally after download
- Reading functionality works without internet connection
- Progressive download of collections as needed

### Memory Management
- Lazy loading of story content
- Image caching for illustrations
- Efficient SQLite queries with proper indexing

### Background Processing
- Collection downloads happen in background
- Reading progress saved asynchronously
- Non-blocking UI updates during data operations
